# Stopifu

Stopifu is a web application intended to aid the creation and optimization of stoplists. The application draws inspiration and code from Michael Kipp's Stopify.  (Stopify Repo: https://github.com/MichaelKipp/Stopify).<br/>
A stoplist is a list of stopwords, or words filtered out before the processing of text. Stoplists are parameters for a range of processes including text mining and topic modeling.<br/>
Based on analysis of several default stoplists and our own experience training topic models, we developed a taxonomy of stopwords. The topmost level of our taxonomy breaks stopwords down into two types: general and task-specific. General stopwords are the most common, least-semantically-meaningful words in a language (e.g., pronouns, prepositions, articles, etc.). Such words populate “junk” topics and are excluded from nearly all models, but there are nevertheless differences resulting from language and time period. Task-specific stopwords, on the other hand, depend on a researcher’s specific question.  Such words may carry semantic meaning but interfere with the researcher’s goal (e.g. proper nouns, foreign words, slang). For instance, a literary scholar may include “Antonio” on a stoplist to avoid a model drawing similarity between two plays simply because of a shared character name. Task-specific stopwords can sometimes be identified by high frequency within a low number of documents, but often require a researcher’s direct input.<br/>
While a wide variety of default stoplists are publicly available online, these stoplist typically consist of general stopwords, leaving researchers to add task-specific stopwords manually. In methods such as topic modeling, this process quickly becomes rigorous, as it involves repeatedly adding individual words, building a topic model, discovering missing words, and so on. Particularly with the extended run-time of advanced methods of textual analysis, the process of weeding out specific stopwords can become tedious and counterintuitive.<br/>
We created Stopifu motivated by the significance of task-specific stopwords and efficient stoplist-creation. The tool takes as input a collection of documents and facilitates the selection of both general and task-specific stopwords. It has the capability to (1) provide default sets of grammar-based stopwords, (2) identify and suggest statistically probable stopwords, (3) toggle activation of stopword sets, and (4) automatically display the impact of excluding the selected stopwords from analysis. With each edit to a stoplist, Stopifu instantaneously provides feedback on the "relationship" between the stoplist and the corpus, modeled by the makeup and distribution of stopwords within the group of documents.<br/>